---
layout: post
title:  "Gail Martin inducted into the Royal Society"
date:   2015-07-14 13:53:00
categories: news
---

### Gail Martin inducted into the Royal Society

We are delighted to announce that Gail Martin, Professor Emerita in the Department of Anatomy, was inducted as a foreign member of the Royal Society. The Royal Society, based in London, is the oldest learned society for science still in existence. Dr. Martin was inducted for being a "world-leader in understanding the function of Fibroblast Growth Factors (FGFs) in vertebrate embryos. She was among the first to realize that growth factors are key molecules in mediating cell-cell interactions during development. FGF signalling is crucial for establishment of the body plan and development of virtually every organ. She not only defined specific functions for FGFs but also established fundamental principles including how negative feedback mechanisms fine-tune signalling. She isolated pluripotent stem cells from early mouse embryos, working independently from another group who achieved this at the same time, and she coined the term “embryonic stem" cells." Induction into the Royal Sociey as a foreigner is considered an especially high accolade and is the latest in a long list of honors that Dr. Martin has received over the course of her career, including a Guggenheim Fellowship (1991–92), the Edwin Grant Conklin Medal from the Society for Developmental Biology (2002), the Pearl Meister Greengard Prize (2007), and the FASEB Excellence in Science Award (2011). Dr. Martin was elected a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1991 and a member of the US National Academy of Sciences in 2002.

